appendix six glossary of terms used in
report agent a person who knowingly
works for the CIA on a contract or job
basis asset a general term for persons
not officers used by the CIA for example
both agents and sources are assets an
asset is anyone used in an operation or
project whether or not that is aware
that he is being used case officer C
operations officer coverage surveillance
crypto NIM
a series of letters used by the CIA to
identify someone or something while
protecting that person or things true
identity all the letters in a Krypton M
are capitalized the first two letters
are assigned by the subject matter or
locale to which the person or thing
belongs the rest of the Krypton M is
randomly assigned C limited for example
the Li Eze ignites that the project was
located in Mexico to the planet on which
Superman was born chronological file a
folder in which material is stored in
chronological order usually used for
production or communications type of
material electronic intercept base house
apartment or building that contains
equipment used in intercepting and
taping telephone conversations subject
to electronic surveillance foi a Freedom
of Information Act ymt CIA Krypton m4
photographic project aimed at the Soviet
embassy in Mexico City Ladd Road CIA
Krypton M pre 1964 for surveillance
operation aimed at the Cubans in Mexico
City Li lyric CIA Krypton M assigned to
one of the three bases which provided
photographic surveillance of the Soviet
embassy in Mexico City Limerick CIA
Krypton M meaning Soviet limited CIA
Krypton M of one of three base
which provided photographic surveillance
of the Soviet embassy in Mexico City lie
onion CIA Krypton m4 photographic
surveillance operations aimed at the
Cuban diplomatic compound in Mexico City
after July 1964 listening post C
electronic intercept base logs a list of
photographs taken and the times they
were taken prepared by agents in the
photographic base houses monitors
redacted who worked in the electronic
intercept base listening to
conversations on telephone lines subject
to wiretap and summarizing those
conversations they deemed to be
important
officer CIA career employee operation a
sub part of a project often used
interchangeably with project Operations
Officer CIA career employee term usually
used in connection with an employee with
the responsibility for a particular
operation or project penetration agent
an agent who works inside a target
institution for example redacted worked
for the CIA and the Cuban embassy in
Mexico City P file designation assigned
to a personality file in the CIA's
Mexico City Station a file for the
retention of information in written form
arranged according to individuals names
photographic base house apartment or
building used for housing of
photographic surveillance equipment and
the agents who operated always located
near the target pitched made an effort
to recruit as an agent asset or source
production materials or information
generated by an operation or project
project a group or set of operations by
the CIA aimed at a specific person
institution or thing with the aim of
collecting information influencing
behavior etc project files a folder for
the retention of information generated
by or relating to a project generally
broken down into
or sub files developments and plans
production support and operations
pseudonym false name assigned to CIA
officers for use in communication
channels pulse camera a camera with a
shutter that is automatically tripped by
a triggering device activated by changes
in light density resume a daily summary
of important conversations on surveilled
telephone lines prepared by monitors in
the listening post selected out phrase
used when a foreign service officer is
retired after having been in one grade
for the maximum period of time and is
not considered qualified for promotion
to a higher grade source a person who
either wittingly or unwittingly provides
information to the CIA station a CIA
overseas installation it is the
headquarters for operations in a
particular country and is usually
located redacted the country in which it
is situated subject file folder for the
retention of information in written form
arranged by the subject-matter of the
information contained target a person
institution or thing at which a project
operation or pitch is aimed VLS to
trigger device a machine which
automatically triggers the shutter of a
camera when it senses a change in light
density used along with a camera and a
spotting scope in a pulse camera